h1. Automated jQuery tests with QUnit

h2. Installation

  (sudo) gem install jodosha-hanoi -s http://gems.github.com
  
h2. Crash Course

  hanoi         # prepare the target directory
  rake test:js  # run the tests

h2. How To Use

Prepare the target directory, you can use one of the following options:

  hanoi
  hanoi .
  hanoi /path/to/project

You need a valid "Rake":http://rake.rubyforge.org/ installation to run your tests:

  rake test:js

You can specify to run the test against one or more browsers:

  rake test:js BROWSERS=firefox,ie,safari

You can specify to run only certain tests:

  rake test:js TESTS=path/to/first_test.js,path/to/second_test.js

You can combine both @BROWSERS@ and @TESTS@ configurations.

h2. Structure

The @hanoi@ executable will create the following structure:

  Rakefile
  test/
    javascript/
      assets/
        jquery.js
        testrunner.js
        testsuite.css
      example_test.js
      fixtures/
        example_fixtures.html
      templates/
        test_case.erb

* @Rakefile@ creates a fresh rakefile, *you have to edit* it according to your setup
* @test@ Hanoi creates it if missing, otherwise will choose between existing @test@ or @spec@ paths
* @javascript@ is the root directory of your tests
* @assets@ contains the jQuery and QUnit source file and a css.
  Place your assets in this directory, it's mapped as root path @/@.
* @example_test.js@ is a sample of a real test case.
* @templates@ contains the template file for your tests. You shouldn't edit it, if you don't know the risk.
* @fixtures@ contains all the HTML fixtures, each file will be injected into the proper case.

By convention, your @test/javascript@ folder *should reflect* the structure of your source directory,
appending the @_test.js@ suffix to each test case and the @_fixtures.html@ to each fixture file.

Example:
  
  src/
    directory_a/
      directory_b/
        file_3.js
      file_2.js
    file_1.js
  test/
    javascript/
      directory_a/
        directory_b/
          file_3_test.js
        file_2_test.js
      file_1_test.js
      fixtures/
        directory_a/
          directory_b/
            file_3_fixtures.html
        file_1_fixtures.html

You have probably noticed that @file_2_fixtures.html@ is missing, this because *fixtures are optional*.

h2. Browsers & Platforms

h3. Platforms:

* MacOS
* Windows
* Linux

h3. Browsers:

* Firefox
* Webkit
* Safari
* Internet Explorer
* Opera
* Konqueror

h4. Webkit on Mac OS X

Run `defaults write org.webkit.nightly.WebKit StartPageDisabled -bool YES` to solve the annoying start page issue.

h2. Acknowledgements

The Ruby libraries of Hanoi are a customization of the jsblib.rb, courtesy of the "Prototype":http://prototypejs.org team.

Hanoi runs a customized version of QUnit, courtesy of the "jQuery":http://jquery.com team.

h2. Repository

  git clone git://github.com/jodosha/hanoi.git

h2. Copyright

(c) 2009 Luca Guidi - "http://lucaguidi.com":http://lucaguidi.com, released under the MIT license
